Updated long-term goals (#2551)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/strategy/strategy.md

---

## TL;DR
Our mission is to increase the number of successful products in the world.

We started by building an open-source product analytics platform with all the basic things you'd need to understand user behavior - funnels, trends, session recording, feature flags, and many more features. Within a year, we had thousands of customers using us and we started generating revenue.

We focused on our paid product earlier in 2021. We quickly hit a milestone for the first 5 reference customers and we've kept selling since. The next step on our journey is to figure out how to accelerate our top of funnel growth, while achieving larger order values from our Enterprise product.

## Context

> We’ve grown a lot - tens of thousands of sign ups - but it’s clear that the many of our users use us *despite* a bad experience, with complex deployment and maintenance a particular issue. This is a great problem to have, as itt means we’re solving a hair on fire problem - product analytics that you can self host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve grown a lot - tens of thousands of sign ups - but it’s clear that the many of our users use us *despite* a bad experience, with complex deployment and maintenance a particular issue. This is a great problem to have, as it means we’re solving a hair-on-fire problem - product analytics that you can self-host.
```

For any company, nothing matters more than product market fit. If we get that right, it’ll be much easier for customer success, marketing or sales teams to succeed.

## Mission

**_“Increase the number of successful products in the world”_**

## Long-term vision (for 2026)

**Where do we want to get to?**

> In 2026 we will _go public with $100M ARR._ To achieve this, Posthog will need to be _the standard devtool for building better products._

Reviewer 2: Devtool makes it sound like it's not a product tool. We're targeting PMs too as key users.

**How do we get there?**

* Build for unserved customers that can’t use cloud offerings because of data control or scale
* Grow a strong and successful developer community around Posthog
* Convert our biggest users to paying customers
* Go broad and develop all the tools our customers need to build better products
* Partner with others to build plugins and deploy our tools
* Ride the industry wave of increasing data control that has been triggered by growing privacy regulation

### What should we be working on today?

**The mechanics of success**

Revenue is critical for us to go public _but we won't set short-term revenue targets_ as revenue is an output metric to several other inputs. Instead, we think it is more appropriate to focus on [metrics within our control that contribute more to our revenue in the long-term.](https://app.posthog.com/dashboard/20464)

> * **[Quality signups](https://app.posthog.com/insights/ujGv0WqI?events=%5B%5D&actions=%5B%7B%22id%22%3A%2212308%22%2C%22math%22%3A%22dau%22%2C%22name%22%3A%22High%20quality%20sign%20ups%22%2C%22type%22%3A%22actions%22%2C%22order%22%3A0%7D%5D&display=ActionsLineGraph&insight=TRENDS&interval=week&date_from=-90d&new_entity=%5B%5D&properties=%5B%7B%22key%22%3A%22is_organization_first_user%22%2C%22type%22%3A%22event%22%2C%22value%22%3A%5B%22true%22%5D%2C%22operator%22%3A%22exact%22%7D%2C%7B%22key%22%3A%22hubspot_score%22%2C%22type%22%3A%22person%22%2C%22value%22%3A%2270%22%2C%22operator%22%3A%22gt%22%7D%5D&breakdown_type&filter_test_accounts=true#fromDashboard=20464):** Volume of quality organizations signing up 

Reviewer 2: Maybe it's worth linking each metric to a specific team that owns it? 

Also maybe just track all these metrics in a single dashboard we link here.

Author: I agree - I believe @jamesefhawkins was updating the team charters to link to the relevant goals.

At the start of next year I'd love to facilitate something with every team to renew their charters for the year - and make sure they're really clear on the metrics they're driving and have a dashboard etc. Would love to would with you on this too.

> ### How should we prioritize between competing directions?

Reviewer 3: These are great! It would be awesome to have quick examples of how past decisions were influenced by each of these guidelines. I think it would go a long way in helping them feel more concrete.

Author: Great feedback - I'm not sure we have strong historical examples (from PostHog) for every one of these but can add them in to support the context.

While there is value in the items on the right, we value the items on the left more.

**Breadth vs. depth of capabilities**

* _Breadth_: build basic versions of every feature needed rather than a small set of sophisticated ones, so our customers can consolidate.

**High quality users vs. high paying businesses**

* _High quality users_: focus on acquiring more high quality users over big ticket contracts, so we can get better feedback and learn faster.

**Plugin-based platform vs one-stop-shop**

> * _Plugin-based platform_: to move faster, look for ways to integrate with the best tools to solve customer problems over building every feature ourselves.

Reviewer 3: It feels like this guideline, as written, contradicts with the 'Breadth vs depth' guideline.

I might be reading into the 'Breadth vs depth' one too much, but I was interpreting it as "let's add more features to PostHog, so that we're the only self-hosted product our customers need", and I'm reading the 'plugin-based platform' one as "lets integrate with 3rd parties, so we don't need to build the features ourselves"

I'm wondering if the 'Plugin-based platform' one is more about integrating 3rd parties as data sources? If that's the case, maybe we need to change the 'over building every feature ourselves' part?

Author: ```suggestion
* _Plugin-based platform_: integrate with the best services and data sources to solve customer problems faster
```
I agree - it needs a bit of tweaking to be clearer as they shouldn't contradict, does this suggestion feel right?

**Self-hosted vs. Cloud**

* _Self-hosted_: focus on customers who need to self-host, as there is a huge untapped market and we’re uniquely placed to win.

**Reject the [“modern data stack”](https://www.analytics8.com/blog/what-is-the-modern-data-stack-and-why-should-you-be-excited-about-it/) vs. adapt to it**

> * _Reject_: We enable our customers to ingest, store and analyze data on their infrastructure, we don't believe sending sensitive data to multiple cloud providers the right approach

Reviewer 2: Is the right approach

> * _Reject_: we have a single product for ingesting, storing and analyzing data, and we will create more value for customers by making this easy to self-host than by being a small part of a cloud stack.

Author: ```suggestion
* _Reject_: We enable our customers to ingest, store and analyze data on their infrastructure, we don't believe sending sensitive data to multiple cloud providers the right approach
```
@Twixes do you think this change makes the point clearer (and less contradictory)?

### How should we prioritize between competing directions?

While there is value in the items on the right, we value the items on the left more

**Breadth vs depth of capabilities**

* **Breadth:** Build basic versions of every feature needed rather than a small set of sophisticated ones, so our customers can consolidate

**High Quality Users vs High paying businesses**

* **High Quality Users:** Focus on acquiring more high quality users over big ticket contracts to get better feedback and learn faster

**Plugin based platform vs one-stop-shop**

* **Plugin based:** To move faster, look for ways to integrate with the best tools to solve customer problems over building every feature ourselves

**Self-hosted vs Cloud**

* **Self-hosted:** Focus on customers who need to self-host, there’s a huge untapped market and we’re uniquely placed to win

**Reject the [“modern data stack”](https://www.analytics8.com/blog/what-is-the-modern-data-stack-and-why-should-you-be-excited-about-it/) vs adapt to it**

> * **Reject:** We have a single product for ingesting, storing and analyzing data, we create more value by making this easy to self-host than by being a small part of a cloud stack

Reviewer 4: This seems to be slightly at odds with "Plugin-based platform" – how do we decide when a feature should be part of our single product and when to instead integrate with some other best tools?

Author: Thanks for the feedback, this does sound contradictory - I created a new suggestion and tagged you.
